# Marsh-Memory-Lab-Art-Viewing
I am currently working with Duke Ph.D candidate Anna Smith on invetsgating the cogntive processes that drive art viewing. 
We are interested in the differences between achieving an “aesthetic experience” when viewing artwork and simply “liking” a work of art. In literature, aesthetics is defined as a high-level perceptual experience that allows one to feel “moved” by an artwork. We are currently undertaking two studies to help understand and better distinguish the mechanisms that drive the aesthetic experience. In this first study, we set out to replicate the established phenomenon of the mere exposure effect: a cognitive phenomenon observed in psychology literature that dictates that the more times one sees a stimulus the more one likes it. We showed 100 participants--all recruited from Prolifics--a set of abstract paintings that contain some that are presented only once and some that are presented twice counterbalanced. Participants then rated these paintings, as well as a set of novel paintings, either on how much they like the paintings, or how moved they are by the paintings. We hypothesized that the mere exposure effect will influence how much participants like the painting but won’t affect their aesthetic experience. For the study, we utilized a series of 60 abstract paintings made by the same artist to strive for more of a constant stimulus across participants. We have already collected the data for this study and are in the process of data analysis and deriving our results. I will present our research at the Visible Thinking undergraduate research conference at Duke University and am in the process of applying to this year’s Psychonomic Society research conference. You can check our date and statsitcal analysis results on the QMD file attached. We ran two paired sample T-tests to see if there was a statistical signifance between particpants' ratings on paintings that were repeaetd and those that were not.
